# EMC Guide from a beginner

In the last months of work i had the opportunity to work a lot on EMC testing.  
In this document I wanted to organise my thoughts and try to set up some guidelines on how to approach an EMC issue.  
This document shall not be taken as a book or a reputable source, because it isn't.  
On the other hand i would love to get feedback on it,and get some help with my mistakes and to expand it.

## Introduction

EMC testings are a group of tests made to be sure that your electronic project can coexist with the rest of the electronic systems that are present in the final user environment.
Not all products follow the same testing, EMC adapts to the use case of the product and to the severity of the environment. For example, an appliance used in the kitchen is subject to more favourable condition with respect to an electrical distribution product.

Fortunately, there shouldn't be any confusion about the tests that are needed for a specific product, because the requirements are all collected in the normative references that the product must comply with. In reality however not all the standards are 100% clear about the required tests, that is done partly on purpose to enhance the applicability of the standard, giving more freedom to the manufacturer and/or to the certification laboratory.

Product standards are made from experts of the topic, and therefore should cover exactly the conditions that the product may encounter in its useful lifetime. This is not always true, but they are a exceptional starting point. The manufacturer can choose to comply only with the standards, but based on the knowledge of its customers and the feedback from the quality department it may also decide to add additional tests to ensure higher final reliability of the product.

## Classification

EMC Tests can be classified in two major categories: Immunity and Emissions.
The names are self explanatory:

Immunity testing is based on injection of disturbances into the circuit to ensure its functionality and monitor its behaviour in harsh conditions.

Emission testing is a measure of the disturbances created from the circuit done to ensure it won't compromise the functionality of nearby equipment.

From here the categorisation of tests in my opinion gets a little fuzzy. If we stick to the standards here we would have directly the series of normative references that get in details on each single tests, for example the IEC 61000 series. However we can do a little more categorisation without getting confused.

The tests are made to verify functionality of the whole circuit, but to do that we need some access points to the circuit itself:
We can use physical ports of the object such as power supply lines communication ports and generic connectors, and in these cases we talk about conducted immunity/emission
The other way to access is directly from EM fields. In immunity we can manipulate fields with antennas and interact with the circuit and its connection and in emission we just pick up (with similar antennas) the EM fields generated by the object.
In this case we are talking about radiated immunity/emissions.

Going along in this exercise we will see different classifications done based on the context, such as energy content and speed/frequency content.

## Closing the first chapter

We now know what EMC testing is and why is done. in the next chapter we will get into EMC Immunity testing, and take a look at the tools, the main tests (at least that i know), how they are performed and what to expect.

I keep this final chapter to link to the next documents and to add eventually a Q&A section with the doubts that may arise.

Any discussion can be made on [Telegram](https://t.me/BarceFC) and the related group for comments.

I will try to modify this and the next documents to add images and make it overall prettier and easier to read.
